To compile DUMB for DOS you need an installation of DJGPP v2. In
addition to the standard components you need allegro (v3), autoconf
and GNU fileutils (implies at least bash as well). Search for the
necessary files through http://www.delorie.com/ and read and follow
all instructions carefully.

Since DJGPP's conio library (in libc.a) contains a gettext function
that conflicts with NLS-support, we make it easy for ourselves by
disabling NLS-support.

1. Install DJGPP and its subcomponents.
2. Install netpbm if necessary. (See below.)
3. Unpack the source distribution to a new subdirectory while
   preserving the directory structure of the distribution archive.
4. Start bash and enter the previously created directory.
5. Type autoconf (this will generate a new DJGPP-compatible
   configure-script and associated makefile.)
6. Make sure a suitable wad-file (doom.wad, heretic.wad etc.) is where
   configure can find it.
7. Type ./configure --disable-nls (and wait for completion)
8. Type make (and wait while DUMB compiles)
9. Retrieve the new dosdumb.exe from the dumb subdirectory.
10. Play.

DUMB writes data to stdout while playing so redirecting stdout when
starting DUMB eliminates the odd "screen jumps" during gameplay.

** Netpbm

Netpbm is a set of libraries and utilities for processing pictures in
PBM, PGM and PPM formats. DUMB's ppmtodumb and dark2trans utilities
require it. Ppmtodumb is in turn needed when doom4dum.wad and
htic4dum.wad are built.

If you want to avoid getting the WAD files from the precompiled (UNIX)
DUMB binaries, you will have to install the netpbm development
libraries. You can download a set of precompiled libraries from
http://hem2.passagen.se/cadwal.

Or, you can compile netpbm from the source. The DUMB Install-FAQ lists
some places you can get it from. Compiling it for DJGPP requires some
twiddling with Makefiles and headers. The DUMB distribution includes
patched files for the Debian netpbm-free-19940301.2 package. If you
have some other version, you may have to tweak them a little. After
compiling netpbm, remember to put the headers and libraries where
DJGPP can find them.

(TODO: Distribute patches instead of entire files? They would then
work with more versions but people would have to install patch (from
GNU Diffutils) or parse the format by hand.)
